Welcome this lecture is all about this little gizmo here the pressure pad.
We are going to be creating a pressure pad that activates the platforms or at least the basis of it
because it doesn't activate the platform just yet.
But we're going to be creating this with a trigger volume and a pressure pad.
It's mesh at the bottom.
In this lecture we're going to be making it mostly in C++ with an extension in blueprint.
So let's dive right in and do that.
So one more thing that I want for our game is to have trigger platforms where we can go and stand on
them and activate the platforms.
Now the reason that I want this is so we can make this truly a multiplayer required game I want to create.
Let me show you this.
The following puzzles experience that we're going to have this platform that moves between here and
here but it only moves when someone standing on a pressure pad on a trigger.
So that is going to mean that in order to get from A to B from this location to the location over in
the distance someone's gonna have to be standing on the pressure pad while the other person is standing
on the platform and that makes it intrinsically multiplayer.
So that's what I'd like to do.
Create a platform a trigger platform on both of these stages so that both players can get across and
yeah.
So let's go ahead and start off by creating a C++ base for this.
I'm going to go into the content browser and you can follow along with me.
We're going to go to add new create new C++ class.
And I'm just going to base this off the active parent class.
Go ahead and hit next.
And I'm going to call it a platform.
Trigger.
Create that class.
Now let's wait for it to compile and while we're doing that let's think a little bit about what the
internals of this trigger might need to be.
So clearly we want something that can give us events when we stand inside it or stand on top of it.
For that I'm going to be using a box component and the box can count component can give us overlap events.
So we're going to be registering for the overlap event in the next lecture.
But in this lecture we're just going to be setting up the component inside of C++.
So when the C++ code has finished generating compiling that is what we're going to do.
In fact let's get a little bit ahead of ourselves and start having a look at how we might do this.
So the key term here is create defaults sub object.
That's how we create components inside C++.
Now I've just gone ahead and done a google search for it so we can copy the definitions because I never
quite remember exactly how it's done right.
It's pretty pretty hard to remember everything.
So what you want to do is.
Okay so we've got something like an F object initializer.
I don't think this is the easiest way.
I seem to recall there being easier ways.
So there seems to be a second documentation link further down which just looks almost identical.
So I'm not sure why those two are different documentation links.
Maybe there's some slight difference in the verschuren or something like that.
Let's have a look further down still.
And you object this creates default subject now that now that I could stick with that seems to make
a little bit more sense.
So how to read this well we've got a template argument and I don't think we need the second template
argument and we've got the return type which is the same as the template argument so this makes sense.
We've got a subobject name which is an F name and a boolean whether it's transient or not.
Case by now hopefully our class has finished generating Let's go back over into unreel and see whether
that is the case.
Nope still generating.
Okay well let's wait for it to finish.
And while we do that we also need to think about what we are going to be creating We're going to be
creating a box component so let's search the documentation for the box components as well.
Often add eui for unreel to search terms if it's going to be ambiguous.
So we've got the you box component that's the type that I'm going to want to create.
Now remember that in newer unreal versions you have to include what you use.
So in order to use the you box component we have to look for the correct header.
It's going to be down here at the bottom.
The box component.
Dot H.
And then we'll be able to use the type that you box component type inside AC plus plus.
So at last my compile finished and popped up with visual studio with and newly created platform trigger.
So the first thing I'm going to want to do is create a new property to store the component.
We always have to have a new property for these components in order for them to hang around because
having you property to a component means that it won't be garbage collected.
So let's go to the platform trigger and under.
I think we're going to keep this private for now.
So let's create a new private section for that.
And then we can always make it more permissive later if you want to.
It's going to be a you property and at the moment I'm not going to give it any particular.
Properties of your property and where it's going to be a new box component.
But we don't like including things in the head of files in order to do this so I'm going to do a forward
declaration at this point because I don't actually need to use any of the guts of the box component
so I'm going to do it for decoration which is class.
You box component which is copied star because it's a pointer and then we are going to call this the
let's see the pressure of volume perhaps.
To basically say it's kind of that pressure pad that trigger triggering volume I think triggering volume
might be a better name actually.
Or trigger volume.
Like so.
Now we need to populate that trigger volume with an actual instance of the you box component.
Best place for that is the constructer So let's go back into the platform triggered off key and here
after the can ever tick.
We can talk about creating these default subjects so I'm going to go back to my documentation for the
create default subobject and I'm going to copy the create default subobject.
I never remember how to type things.
And then we are going to make an instance of you box.
Component.
And we're going to give it an F name.
And the f name is going to be let's call it again the trigger volume.
So that's what's going to show up in the blueprint subclasses.
Kate so that's seems all right no redd's quigley's.
And we want to capture the return value there in two volume.
Trigger volume private variable.
MIKE So and one more thing is I want to set the root component of this actor.
Now that's fairly easy.
You've got a root component property here which we can just set to that trigger volume.
But I want to first make sure that the trigger volume hasn't initialized null hang on we've got a little
bit of an error here let's see what that's about.
Cannot a value of type you box component star cannot be assigned to an entity of type Useem component.
Now that's because we haven't included the header for the you box components so let's go ahead and do
that.
You can find it on the documentation page.
Scroll to the bottom and it's basically the bit after the runtime engine classes it's just components
box components.
H.
So I can grab that go back to visual studio and I'm going to include it below my platform triggered.
H leave a bit of space so that it's clear that this is including stuff from the engine.
And paste that in.
Hopefully that should make our error go away.
Yes it has now it can assign to a you seen component because it knows that it's a Useem component.
And one more thing I'm hyper paranoid about null pointers in unreel because it can bring the whole Ed
crashing down.
So what I've actually got here is a text expansion which automatically basically creates a nold check
and does an Ensure around that null check that if you're not sure what an insurer is you can go ahead
and look at the documentation.
Basically it throws an error into the logs but without crashing the editor.
So my I call it null RET it's a text expander shortcut you can use something similar.
It's a very cross platform so it's not visual studio dependent at all you can do this on Mac as well
and you can see what is doing here is it saying well I'm going to include this.
Just tell me what the name of the variable is.
So my name of the variable is trigger volume.
Okay.
And there we go.
It has expanded out and let me just read to you what this one liner is doing.
It's saying first of all ensure which is the check.
So we want to ensure that trigger volume is not equal to null pointer.
That's what we want to be true.
But in case it is equal to null pointer then we want to return from this method and not execute any
more of it because the rest of the method might be dangerous for there being a null pointer in it.
So that's basically what this does.
You can pause a second and make sure that you fully understand what that one line does.
It's a little bit terse.
It's got a few exclamation marks in it a few knots and Legations in there.
So just get familiar with that get happy and do ask the Q and A.
If you still aren't quite happy with what that ensure is doing.
Okay let's go ahead and build this now.
OK we've got a successful compile so we're ready to move on to the next step because we haven't actually
Gotz in the world yet the next step is to tweak the blueprint so we actually need to have a blueprint
in place.
That's going to be your challenge.
The challenge is to create a blueprint child of this class of the trigger component class.
So first off that blueprint is going to be used to scale the box to sensible dimensions for a trigger
platform.
Just remember that we're going to have our character walking into this box and that's what's going to
set off the pressure pad.
Secondly we need to attach a mesh that makes it obvious that there is a pressure pad to stand on at
tool.
And thirdly we want to place it in the world in the correct spots.
Remember that I said we wanted it to be near those that moving platform.
The third and last moving platform because we wanted to activate that moon platform on both sides of
the divide so pause a video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay Welcome back let's create this blueprint child so I'm going to go over to the unreel editor and
let's see what's the first step.
I'm going to add new.
No I'm not.
I'm going to go up from the C plus pass classes Otherwise it's going to not give me the full ad new.
Man you going to create a blueprint class.
Maybe not.
Maybe this isn't the quickest way.
Let's go down back into the C plus plus classes and find our platform trigga right click it and create
a blueprint class based on the platform trigger.
That's what I want.
Okay now we're getting there.
And remember our prefixes we want to prefix this with BP underscore that will help us differentiate
it from the C++.
It also basically is the convention.
Let's go ahead and create that class.
I think I've created it in the wrong place so let's put it in.
Now we've actually created something for this particular game for our puzzle platforms gameless create
a new folder specific to puzzle platforms where we can put any of the assets that are not taken from
elsewhere.
So I'm going to create a new folder.
Call it puzzle.
Platforms.
And move our BP in to that puzzle platforms folder.
And let's go over to that Tammy that was opened up for our puzzle platform BP trigger Okay.
First off we've got our trigger volume which as we know is a box collision component and we can't edit
it yet.
Okay.
So why can't we edit it because our new property doesn't have any of the required.
Ed Ball.
Annotations basically So if we go back to our platform triggered dot H then you see we left our property
open in order to get this up to the point of.
Basically being able to see an edit our volume you would think that you need an editor anywhere but
if you use edit anywhere give it a try.
You'll see what happens you get some collapsable widget and that's really strange but the reason for
that is because it's saying you might want to be editing the pointer and we clearly dont want to be
editing the point.
We just want to be able to see the contents of the pointer and change the contents of a pointer.
So for that counterintuitively we actually use visible anywhere.
So let's try that.
Now the autocomplete isn't going to help me so it's visible anywhere with kamil case.
Go ahead and compile that and see if that has the right impact on the blueprints.
Okay compile succeeded Let's go over and see if that's had the required effect in the blueprint let's
click on the trigger volume and sure enough all the properties show up.
Now you can try doing edits anywhere to see what I meant by that effect but hopefully you got there
yourself in the challenge.
So let's click on our blueprint trigger volume and change the box extent to be just a little bit bigger.
I think I'm going to go for about 100 by 100 by 200 something like that.
So we get a nice box there.
And I wanted to add a mesh as well so let's add a mesh that will be a Add component static mesh and
I'm going to call it the pressure.
And I'm going to use a cube and then I'm going to use scales said cube and actually you'll notice that
our volume is a little bit big because that cube is 1 meter squared and a character can sit squarely
on it.
So we want to first off scale AQ a little bit down so it's more of a squashed pad.
Then I want to move it towards the bottom.
Of our trigger volume and then a trigger volume.
We want to bring in maybe to have box extent.
I think it looks like half the size so 50 by 50 by 100 seems like a more sensible size.
Okay.
Now I need to bring the pressure pad back up a little bit.
That seems to be just about right let's check off against the challenge.
Okay.
Final thing is two places in the world.
So let's go ahead and do that.
I'm going to navigate my way to the top of unseen area number one go to my posit platforms folder and
bring out that trigger.
To bring it up a little bit and then we get we've got our trigger with a pressure pad which is looking
a bit bulky actually I don't like the height of that trapped pressure pad let's make it a smidge smaller.
To do that I think I'm going to have to manually edit this scale because it's a little bit too sensitive.
Go I'd do it.
I'll set it to point one in that dimension save go back to our map.
That's looking like a better press pad already.
So that pressure plan add pressure pad is in place and with a shift whoops let's see where this shift
and a move.
Nope not a shift in a move but a control and a move.
Nope.
See if I can get this right.
Alton a move.
There you go.
We do placate while dragging.
And I'm going to take it over to the other area and that's great.
That's placed in the world obviously has no functionality yet but that's what we're going to deal with
in the next lecture.
So I will see you there.